---
layout: post
title:  Thoughts and Opinions on ADASS XXVI Day 2
---

_ These are a few random thoughts and opinions about my day.  As today, they are not even really about ADASS although being at ADASS along with recent events has focused a few of these thoughts. _

Without a doubt and apologies to the great talks today, the best part
of Day 2 of ADASS was the Low Latency Concert 'A Tribute to W. A.
Mozart' at the Tartini Conservatorio.   At the concert, an orchestra
in Trieste was connected to a piano player in Ljiubljani via a low
latency connection -- basically one of the best video/audio conference
facilities in the world.   It was a great example of something that
astronome's talk about all the time:  how by-products developed in
research projects can have far greater benefits to society.   In this
case, it is a network to allow musicians to play together at speeds
and fidelity that the audience can not tell that they are in different
places allowing them to share their art.   It was a beautiful concert
played by talented, young musicians located in different places.

Some of the benefits from this technology are immediate: the ability
for musicians to collaborate, to share their work to a wider audience,
and to save the cost and impact of travel.   However, many of these
benefits to greater society will only show up later and likely in ways
we will not notice it: Improved teleconferencing and immersive
environments where perhaps we will not need to travel to conferences
to be in the same place.   This will amplify the ability to
disseminate information especially as costs drops making it far more
accessible.

And then, sitting there, listening to a beautiful Mozart concert, I
thought of the rest of the world.  It is, now, the immediate,
accessibility of information that is helping us to learn about the
world.  The horrors in Syria.  The atrocities occurring regularly in
the American justice system.  The subtle and not so subtle biases our
friends, family, and colleagues face.   The long, painful impact of
colonialization.  The reality of climate change. The previously hidden
opinions of the powerful and privileged.  Astronomy can take our
perspective away from the world, but at the same time, it can bring it
into much starker contrast as well.

This was compounded by a statement from a colleague today and
something that comes up often: 'How can we justify spending so much
money on a telescope?'  I had stepped out of ADASS during the
afternoon to join, by skype, a meeting occurring in South Africa,
about building new facilities.  With the current protests by students,
slow transformation,  and millions in poverty, I, without a doubt,
feel conflicted to say the least.   I have the privilege of doing
something I love in a place I find beautiful filled with amazing
people, while surrounded by too many problems to even count.  The
money spent on telescopes, on astronomy, and even me, could be going
more directly to immediately improve the lives of South Africans (not
to mention the ever present personal conflict that I have a job that a
South African could have).

There are good reasons to build new telescopes.  At a fundamental
level, we can learn something new that will improve lives.  Although
we were listening to music from over 200 years ago, some of the
technology that made it possible could be traced to fundamental
physics uncovered during the intervening time due to astronomical
observations.

We build new telescopes to help train the next generation of
astronomers and engineers.   This both helps in terms of enabling
people to make the next great discovery, but also to engage with
cutting edge technology.  One of the organizers of the concert was
trained in astronomy and physics before developing new web
technologies and infrastructure to allow the concert to be possible.
Also, new infrastructure provides employment opportunities in
meaningful work.

However, at the same time, someone asked me tonight "So what are you
getting out of ADASS?"  The cost of this conference for me could pay
the fees for one year at UCT for a student.  Is it worth it?   There
is no chance that my four days here are worth as much as one year of
University to someone.  I have my own selfish reasons for being here
and it is incredible hard to quantify the values of the connections
that are built, the introduction to new technologies and techniques,
or conversations with collaborators. The value of conversations about
better ways to operate a telescope, methods for following up LSST
discoveries, or better spectroscopic reductions techniques are hard to
quantify especially before they are translated into real actions.
Also, meetings like this are a great opportunity for me to learn new
technologies and methods.

Working in astronomy fulfills many different needs.   It supports me.
It allows for personal growth and satisfaction.   It benefits society
directly through training and new technologies, and indirectly through
new discoveries that we hope, one day, will revolutionize the world.
However, I do need to prioritize my work and efforts in ways that will
make, and hopefully continue to make, a meaningful impact.
