---
layout: post
title:  Luminous Compact Blue Galaxies: A critical phase in the evolution of dwarf elliptical galaxies
---

An important test of galaxy evolution theory is to connect populations of galaxies that we see in the past to galaxies observed in the nearby Universe: What were the progenitors of the spiral, elliptical, and dwarf galaxies that we observed today?   The most numerous type of galaxy observed are dwarf galaxies, and in the largest structures in the Universe, dwarf elliptical galaxies are the most numerous galaxies in these clusters of galaxies.  These galaxies are small and dead:  these galaxies have lost all of their gas and are no longer forming stars.  But how did they end up in clusters and in this state?   

Well, in all likelihood, these galaxies have been falling into clusters since the beginning of time where the dense environment in galaxy clusters triggers a burst of star formation signaling the end of their lives.  This hypothesis is based on observations of Luminous Compact Blue Galaxies (LCBGs) -- a population of galaxies bursting with star formation seen primarily when the Universe was half its current age. 

what are LCBGs (picture of one)?


Now, when we look for LCBGs in galaxy clusters, and we were looking at the largest galaxy clusters that are known, we found these clusters had far more LCBGs than one would expect based on their density in the field.   The population of LCBGs in clusters was *enhanced* as compared to the field similar to the *enhanced* number of dwarf elliptical galaxies seen in local galaxy clusters.   More so than that, the distribution of LCBGs in clustes, both in space and velocity, seems to indicate that they are recent arrivals ot the cluster environment.  

some more stuff on why cluster LCBGs are dEs

In our most recent work, we found the cluster LCBGs were very similar to field LCBGs, but we did find some interesting results.  
-neighbors
-weird star formation

what's next



